---
layout: page
permalink: /research/
title: Research
---


## Research Interests

{% include image.html url="/images/vermont.jpg" caption="" height="400px" align="right" %} 


My statistical research focuses on the development and evaluation of 
risk prediction models as well as the
analysis of high dimensional data. During my doctoral studies, I
developed novel statistical methodology that utilizes machine-learning
techniques to quantify a subject’s risk for disease based on a large
number of genetic markers as well as environmental and clinical
predictors. As a post-doctoral research fellow at the Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Institute, I collaborated with geneticists and
epidemiologists on the analysis of a vast amount of genomic and
epidemiological data collected by multiple institutes to study
colorectal cancer pathogenesis. I have also collaborated with
researchers at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women’s Hospital
in Boston, MA, on analyses of diverse types of high dimensional data
such as electronic medical records, as well as multiple large
genome-wide association studies. My connections and
collaborations with clinicians and scientists in the Knight
Cardiovascular Institute and Knight Cancer Institute
encourage my interest in factors contributing
to cardiovascular disease, stroke and cancer, as well as disease prevention and
treatment strategies.

### Statistical Methodology for Genetic Risk Prediction and High Dimensional
Data Analysis

Analysis of high-dimensional data often seeks to identify
a subset of important features and to assess the effects of these
features on outcomes. Traditional statistical inference procedures based
on standard regression methods often fail in the presence of
high-dimensional features. In recent years, regularization methods have
emerged as promising tools for analyzing high-dimensional data.
Statistical inference on these models is challenging. In my graduate
studies I developed methods for estimating the distribution of
regularized regression coefficients. This method, justified by
asymptotic theory, provides a simple way to estimate the covariance
matrix and confidence regions, thereby providing accurate inference on
these commonly used models. In addition to inference problems, I have
worked on methods for risk prediction and classification based on a
large number of predictors. One setting for which these models are
useful is the burgeoning field of genomics. Genetic studies of complex
traits have uncovered only a small number of risk markers explaining a
small fraction of heritability and adding little improvement to disease
risk prediction. Standard single marker methods may lack power in
selecting informative markers or estimating effects. Most existing
methods also typically do not account for non-linearity, which could
result in loss of prediction accuracy when the underlying effects are
non-linear. With my collaborators, I have developed risk prediction
models that bridge high dimensional statistical methodology with
powerful and flexible machine learning models. Our models relate genetic
markers to disease risk by taking advantage of known gene-set
structures. We provide a prediction model framework that is flexible for
many types of genomics studies.

### Prediction and Classification with Electronic Medical Records

Electronic Medical Record (EMR) data marts provide a rich and vast set
of data from which to characterize population and individual disease
progression. It is challenging to harness this data in a meaningful way
and hence building accurate prediction models with this data is
difficult. My collaborators at Harvard Medical School and Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in Boston, MA, have developed natural language
processing (NLP) methods to glean informative features from EMR data.
Together with my collaborators and my PhD advisor, Professor Tianxi Cai,
we developed statistical methods to incorporate NLP terms with codified
and clinical data to accurately predict disease risk. We incorporated
regularized regression and resampling techniques to build the models.
These models were successfully validated in larger data marts in order
to identify eligible cohorts for future epidemiological studies.

###	Statistical Genetics and Genetic Epidemiology

The field of genetics and genomics is growing rapidly. In order to
answer scientific questions of interest it is imperative to form an
interdisciplinary team including geneticists, epidemiologists, and
biostatisticians. As a member of such teams, I have studied of genetic
phenomenon as genetic instability and gene-environment interactions. I
have collaborated with research teams at Harvard and the Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center to study these topics in various large genomic
data sets. My main contributions were providing statistical guidance in
study design, performing data analyses, and conducting relevant
simulation studies to answer the research questions of interest.

